Coco Chanel was a French fashion designer and businesswoman. She was the founder and namesake of the Chanel brand. Along with her companion, the Duke of Westminster, she was credited in the post-World War I era with liberating women from the constraints of the "corseted silhouette" and popularizing a sporty, casual chic as the feminine standard of style. Chanel is the only fashion designer to be named on Time magazine's list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century.

Haute couture is the creation of exclusive custom-fitted high-end fashion design. The term is French and is used by the Chambre de commerce et d'industrie de Paris based in Paris. Haute couture is not a brand or a trademark, but a legally protected name that can be used only by fashion houses that meet certain well-defined standards. Typically, haute couture garments are made-to-order for a specific client, and are usually made from high-quality, expensive fabric and sewn with extreme attention to detail and finish, often using time-consuming hand-executed techniques.

The little black dress (LBD) is a black evening or cocktail dress, cut simply and often quite short. It is a staple of a "capsule wardrobe". Fashion historians ascribe the origins of the little black dress to the 1920s designs of Coco Chanel. It is intended to be long-lasting, versatile, affordable, and widely accessible. Its ubiquity is such that it is often simply referred to as the "Little Black Dress". The LBD has become a fashion classic, known for its ability to be dressed up or down for any occasion.

Jeans are a type of pants or trousers, typically made from denim or dungaree cloth. Often the term "jeans" refers to a particular style of trousers, called "blue jeans", which were invented by Jacob W. Davis in partnership with Levi Strauss & Co. in 1871 and patented by Jacob W. Davis and Levi Strauss on May 20, 1873. Prior to the patent, the term "blue jeans" had been long in use for various garments, constructed from blue colored denim. Historically, jeans were workwear, but they became popular among teenagers starting in the 1950s. Jeans remain a popular fashion item, available in a wide range of styles and colors.

Christian Dior was a French fashion designer, best known as the founder of one of the world's top fashion houses, Christian Dior SE. His house of fashion is now held by LVMH. Dior's designs were more voluptuous than the boxy, fabric-conserving shapes of the post-World War II styles. He is perhaps best known as the creator of the "New Look", which was characterized by a tiny waist, a soft shoulder, and a full, flowing skirt that used an abundance of fabric.

The Met Gala, formally called the Costume Institute Gala and also known as the Met Ball, is an annual fundraising gala held for the benefit of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute in New York City. It is considered one of the most prominent and exclusive social events in the world and is also one of the biggest fundraising nights in the city. The event is widely recognized for its fashion and serves as a celebration of the Costume Institute's annual fashion exhibit.

Giorgio Armani is an Italian fashion designer. He first gained renown working for Cerruti and then for many others, including Allegri, Bagutta, and Hilton. He formed his company, Armani, in 1975, which eventually expanded into music, sport, and luxury hotels. Armani is known for his clean, tailored lines, and is credited with pioneering red-carpet fashion and relaxed luxury. He has been called the most successful Italian designer, a position backed up by his company's sales figures.

Ralph Lauren is an American fashion designer, philanthropist, and businessman, best known for the Ralph Lauren Corporation, a global multibillion-dollar enterprise. He began his career designing and selling neckties. He is also known for his collection of classic automobiles, some of which have appeared in exhibitions at museums such as the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and the Louvre. Lauren became the first designer to receive the Lifetime Achievement Award from the CFDA.

Yves Saint Laurent was a French fashion designer who, in 1962, founded his eponymous fashion label. He is regarded as being among the foremost fashion designers of the twentieth century. In 1985, Caroline Milbank wrote, "The most consistently celebrated and influential designer of the past twenty-five years, Yves Saint Laurent can be credited with both spurring the couture's rise from its 1960s ashes and with finally leading ready-to-wear out of the doldrums it had suffered since the decline of Courrèges." His most famous innovation is the women's tuxedo suit, Le Smoking.

Vogue is an American monthly fashion and lifestyle magazine that covers many topics, including fashion, beauty, culture, living, and runway. Based at One World Trade Center in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, Vogue began as a weekly newspaper in 1892 before becoming a monthly magazine years later. Since its founding, Vogue has featured numerous actors, musicians, models, and other celebrities on the cover of its magazine. Vogue is often described as the world's most influential fashion magazine.
