The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont, based on the 1982 Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. It tells the story of banker Andy Dufresne, who is sentenced to life in Shawshank State Penitentiary for the murders of his wife and her lover, despite his claims of innocence. Over the following two decades, he befriends a fellow prisoner, contraband smuggler Ellis Red Redding, and becomes instrumental in a money-laundering operation led by the prison warden. The film stars Tim Robbins as Andy and Morgan Freeman as Red. It received critical acclaim and was nominated for seven Academy Awards.

The Godfather is a 1972 American crime film directed by Francis Ford Coppola, who co-wrote the screenplay with Mario Puzo, based on Puzo's best-selling 1969 novel of the same title. The film stars Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan, Richard Castellano, Robert Duvall, Sterling Hayden, John Marley, and Diane Keaton. It is the first installment in The Godfather trilogy, chronicling the Corleone family under patriarch Vito Corleone from 1945 to 1955. It focuses on the transformation of his youngest son, Michael Corleone, from reluctant family outsider to ruthless mafia boss. The film is widely regarded as one of the greatest in world cinema.

The Dark Knight is a 2008 superhero film directed, produced, and co-written by Christopher Nolan. Based on the DC Comics character Batman, the film is the second installment of Nolan's The Dark Knight Trilogy and a sequel to 2005's Batman Begins. The film follows Batman, police lieutenant James Gordon, and district attorney Harvey Dent, who form an alliance to dismantle organized crime in Gotham City. Their efforts are derailed by the Joker, an anarchistic mastermind who seeks to test how far Batman will go to save the city from chaos. The film stars Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Heath Ledger, Gary Oldman, Aaron Eckhart, and Maggie Gyllenhaal. Ledger's performance received universal acclaim and he posthumously won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.

Pulp Fiction is a 1994 American crime film written and directed by Quentin Tarantino, who conceived it with Roger Avary. The film is known for its eclectic dialogue, ironic mix of humor and violence, nonlinear narrative, and a cast of ensemble and cameo appearances. Its plot revolves around two mob hitmen, a gangster's wife, a boxer, and a pair of diner bandits. The film stars John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Uma Thurman, Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth, Amanda Plummer, Maria de Medeiros, Ving Rhames, and Eric Stoltz. Pulp Fiction was a major success both critically and commercially, and revived Travolta's career.

Forrest Gump is a 1994 American comedy-drama film directed by Robert Zemeckis and written by Eric Roth. It is based on the 1986 novel of the same name by Winston Groom. The film stars Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson, and Sally Field. The story depicts several decades in the life of Forrest Gump, a slow-witted but kind-hearted man from Alabama who witnesses and unwittingly influences several defining historical events in the 20th century United States. The film was a massive commercial success and won six Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Actor for Hanks.

Inception is a 2010 science fiction action film written and directed by Christopher Nolan, who also produced the film with his wife Emma Thomas. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio as a professional thief who steals information by infiltrating the subconscious of his targets. He is offered a chance to have his criminal history erased as payment for the implantation of another person's idea into a target's subconscious. The ensemble cast includes Ken Watanabe, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Marion Cotillard, Elliot Page, Tom Hardy, Cillian Murphy, Tom Berenger, and Michael Caine. Inception grossed over $836 million worldwide and won four Academy Awards.

The Matrix is a 1999 science fiction action film written and directed by the Wachowskis. It stars Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano. The film depicts a dystopian future in which humanity is unknowingly trapped inside a simulated reality, the Matrix, created by intelligent machines to distract humans while using their bodies as an energy source. When computer programmer Thomas Anderson, under the hacker alias Neo, uncovers the truth, he joins a rebellion against the machines along with other people who have been freed from the Matrix. The film was a critical and commercial success, winning four Academy Awards.

Titanic is a 1997 American epic romance and disaster film directed, written, co-produced, and co-edited by James Cameron. Incorporating both historical and fictionalized aspects, the film is based on accounts of the sinking of the RMS Titanic, and stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet as members of different social classes who fall in love aboard the ship during its ill-fated maiden voyage. The film also features Billy Zane, Kathy Bates, Frances Fisher, Gloria Stuart, Bernard Hill, and David Warner. Titanic was a critical and commercial success, winning 11 Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director.

The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring is a 2001 epic fantasy adventure film directed by Peter Jackson, based on the first volume of J. R. R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings. The film features an ensemble cast including Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Liv Tyler, Viggo Mortensen, Sean Astin, Cate Blanchett, John Rhys-Davies, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Orlando Bloom, Christopher Lee, and Hugo Weaving. It follows hobbit Frodo Baggins as he inherits the One Ring and begins a quest to destroy it. The film was critically acclaimed and nominated for 13 Academy Awards.

Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope is a 1977 American epic space opera film written and directed by George Lucas. It is the first film in the Star Wars film series. The film stars Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, and Peter Cushing, with Alec Guinness. Set in a galaxy far, far away, the plot focuses on the Rebel Alliance, led by Princess Leia, and its attempt to destroy the Death Star, a powerful space station built by the Galactic Empire. Luke Skywalker, a young farmer, joins forces with Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, smuggler Han Solo, and his companions to rescue Leia and save the galaxy. The film was a massive success and won six Academy Awards.

The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont, based on the 1982 Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. It tells the story of banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins), who is sentenced to life in Shawshank State Penitentiary for the murders of his wife and her lover, despite his claims of innocence. Over the following two decades, he befriends a fellow prisoner, Ellis "Red" Redding (Morgan Freeman), and becomes instrumental in a money-laundering operation led by the prison warden. The film received critical acclaim and was nominated for seven Academy Awards. It is now considered one of the greatest films ever made.

Pulp Fiction is a 1994 American crime film written and directed by Quentin Tarantino, conceived from a story by Tarantino and Roger Avary. It tells four intertwining tales of crime and violence in Los Angeles, California. The film stars John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Uma Thurman, Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth, Amanda Plummer, and Bruce Willis. Pulp Fiction won the Palme d'Or at the 1994 Cannes Film Festival and was a major critical and commercial success. It revitalized the careers of Travolta and Tarantino and is widely regarded as a masterpiece of postmodern cinema.

Forrest Gump is a 1994 American comedy-drama film directed by Robert Zemeckis and written by Eric Roth, based on the 1986 novel of the same name by Winston Groom. The film stars Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson, and Sally Field. It follows the life of Forrest Gump, a slow-witted but kind-hearted man from Alabama who witnesses and unwittingly influences several defining historical events in the 20th century. The film received critical acclaim and won six Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Actor for Hanks.

Inception is a 2010 science fiction action film written and directed by Christopher Nolan, who also produced it with his wife Emma Thomas. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio as a professional thief who steals information by infiltrating the subconscious of his targets. He is offered a chance to have his criminal history erased as payment for the implantation of another person's idea into a target's subconscious. The film co-stars Ken Watanabe, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Marion Cotillard, and Cillian Murphy. Inception received critical acclaim for its originality, screenplay, and visual effects, and won four Academy Awards.

The Matrix is a 1999 science fiction action film written and directed by the Wachowskis. It stars Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano. The film depicts a dystopian future in which humanity is unknowingly trapped inside a simulated reality, the Matrix, created by intelligent machines to distract humans while using their bodies as an energy source. Computer programmer Neo learns the truth and joins a rebellion against the machines. The Matrix was a critical and commercial success, praised for its innovative visual effects, action sequences, and philosophical themes.

Gladiator is a 2000 epic historical drama film directed by Ridley Scott and written by David Franzoni, John Logan, and William Nicholson. The film stars Russell Crowe as Maximus Decimus Meridius, a Roman general who is betrayed and forced into slavery. He becomes a gladiator and rises through the ranks to seek revenge against the corrupt emperor who murdered his family. The film co-stars Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen, and Oliver Reed. Gladiator received critical acclaim and won five Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Actor for Crowe.

The Silence of the Lambs is a 1991 American psychological horror film directed by Jonathan Demme and written by Ted Tally, adapted from Thomas Harris's 1988 novel of the same name. The film stars Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling, a young FBI trainee who seeks the help of imprisoned cannibalistic serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to catch another serial killer, "Buffalo Bill" (Ted Levine). The film was a critical and commercial success and became the third film to win Academy Awards in all five major categories: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress, and Best Adapted Screenplay.

Schindler's List is a 1993 American epic historical drama film directed and co-produced by Steven Spielberg and scripted by Steven Zaillian. It stars Liam Neeson as Oskar Schindler, a German industrialist who saved the lives of more than a thousand mostly Polish-Jewish refugees during the Holocaust by employing them in his factories. The film co-stars Ralph Fiennes and Ben Kingsley. It was a critical and commercial success and won seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director. It is widely regarded as one of the greatest films ever made.